---
layout: post
author: jab
title: MPF 0.51 has been released
tags: [0.51, MPF]
---
MPF 0.51 has been released as maintainance release with new features, bugfixes,
refactorings and minimal breaking changes.

MPF 0.51 Has Been Released
==========================

Today, we release MPF 0.51 as a maintainance release to 0.50.
0.50 users should be able to upgrade with only minor changes to their config (if any).
This post only mentions some highlights and you can alternatively read the
[full release notes](http://docs.missionpinball.org/en/dev/versions/release_notes.html)
in the [MPF docs](http://docs.missionpinball.org).

Performance Improvements
------------------------

We generally improve the startup performance of MPF and MPF-MC by caching
the parsed config when it did not change.
In addition, we improved lights and show performance to smooth transitions
at minimal CPU load.
To prevent lags on flaky switches (or bad debounce) we also improved switch
and event handler performance.
Most of those changes were made based on feedback from users which were running
MPF on embedded PCs such as the Raspberry PI 3 or Raspberry PI Zero.
Similarly, we improved the performance of almost all of our platforms.
If you see performance problem please report them in our
[forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users).

Bugfixes/Ball Search
--------------------

The release contains numerous bug fixes based on user reports.
One area which improved a lot is our ball search implementation.
We added new options to customize ball search and improved the behaviour
of quite a few devices.
This should give new users a very smooth ball search experience.

However, as a consequence you might have to remove the ``playfield_active``
tag from a few of your switches if they are used by a device.
MPF will complain about this on startup.
Those tags are no longer needed for switches which part of devices
because devices handle playfield activation internally in 0.51.
Previously, MPF would trigger a switch during ball search
(e.g. by resetting a drop target) and end ball search incorrectly.

Accelerometers/Steppers
-----------------------

We refactored the interfaces for accelerometers and steppers to support more
hardware platforms.
However, we believe that this only affects very few users.
Please refer to the
[stepper config reference](http://docs.missionpinball.org/en/latest/config/steppers.html) and
[accelerometer config reference](http://docs.missionpinball.org/en/latest/config/accelerometers.html)
for details.

New Hardware Support
--------------------

A few new hardware platforms are supported in 0.51:

* Burst IRs on the Multimorphic P3-Roc
* Local inputs and outputs on the Multimorphic P3-Roc
* Steppers on the Multimorphic PD-LED v3+
* Servos on the Multimorphic PD-LED v3+
* Serial LEDs on the Multimorphic PD-LED v2+
* I2C on the Raspberry PI via pigpio
* Philips Hue lights via the hue bridge
* Support for external platforms (add your custom platform today)

Documentation
-------------

We extended the documentation.
The config reference for almost all devices has been completed.
We added a section about game design and how to lay out your modes.
We documented common modes based on questions in our [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users).
Please ask there if you are missing anything.
