---
layout: post
author: jab
title: MPF 0.52 has been released
tags: [0.52, MPF]
---
MPF 0.52 has been released as maintenance release with new features, bugfixes,
refactorings and no breaking changes.

MPF 0.52 Has Been Released
==========================

Today, we release MPF 0.52 as a maintainance release to 0.51.
0.51 users should be able to upgrade with no changes to their config.
This post only mentions some highlights and you can alternatively read the
[full release notes](http://docs.missionpinball.org/en/dev/versions/release_notes.html)
in the [MPF docs](http://docs.missionpinball.org).

Python 3.7 Support and newer Ruamel
-----------------------------------

MPF 0.52 supports Python 3.7 which will hit mainstream soon.
It improves performance in some areas.  
Additionally, we updated to a newer version of our YAML
parsing library which should yield some startup performance improvements.

Polishing
---------

Some areas received polishing:

* System 11 got some improvements. For instance, AC relays become default on
  during the game and default off in attract.
* OPP verifies the firmware to match on all boards
* Improved USB/I2C latency on the P3-Roc
* Communication to the P-Roc moved to a separate thread
* Placeholders work in a lot more places now
* Better errors on startup and shutdown

New Hardware Support
--------------------

A few new hardware platforms are supported in 0.52:

* SPI Bit Bang for the Spike Trough (and similar hardware)
* Raspberry Pi DMD support
* Pololu Tic Stepper Controller

Upgrade instructions
--------------------

To upgrade, use pip:

~~~~
pip install --upgrade mpf mpf-mc
~~~~

Note: if you installed mpf with ```pip3``` or ```kivy -m pip3```, you'll need to use the same pip command as you did then.

If you use MPF Monitor, that will need an upgrade too

~~~~
pip install --upgrade mpf-monitor
~~~~

* If you were using a workaround for "use_sound_setting", it is no longer necessary as that bug has been fixed
* If you have switches tagged as "playfield_active" and use them in a device, you will need to remove those tags (MPF will complain on startup)

Documentation
-------------

We extended the documentation.
The config reference for almost all devices has been completed.
We added a section about game design and how to lay out your modes.
We documented common modes based on questions in our [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mpf-users).
Please ask there if you are missing anything.
